welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
[Music]
business hi everyone and welcome back to
a fresh episode of sam's business growth
show i'm excited today to be joined by
the sales legend
tony hughes tony is the co-founder and
sales innovation director
over at sales iq global he's actually
ranked as the third
most influential person in the world on
the topic of selling
according to linkedin he's got 35 years
experience in sales leadership
he's a best-selling author speaker
blogger and sales leader
tony of everyone welcome my friend how
are you doing thank you sam i'm really
well so
group greetings from australia uh it's
our evening and it's your morning i
believe they're in the uk but
exactly excited about being on the show
yeah bright and early here
and i think you're just wrapping up your
day there so yeah looking forward to
chatting today tony
so there's plenty of things that we want
to discuss with your good self
um i think we're going to be talking
kind of about what it takes to succeed
in sales
and perhaps a little bit about essential
cell success for every business
but before we get into that juicy stuff
tony for anyone that doesn't know tony
hughes
uh be good to get a little bit of a
snapshot on yourself tony so perhaps you
give us a quick kind of five minute
brief on your background
how you got into sales how you got into
business and um just leading up to you
starting off on your own
yeah so i think a lot of the people that
are watching or listening to this
are small business or medium-sized
business people themselves
in my early 20s i ran my own company
and sold it in australia and we took it
to the usa so we're 25 years of age i
was in america starting a business
and i learned a big lesson in the states
and that was if you can't
personally sell and market you're not
going to do that well in business
when i came back to australia we were
getting royalties for 12 years and i had
a non-compete in that industry
so i decided i needed to go and learn
how to sell and ended up really
falling in love with selling i just
thought wow you can make amazing money
have huge levels of freedom and i guess
at the heart of selling in my mind it's
really about making a positive
difference in the lives of others
you know your clients but personally and
professionally and for any business
owner that's what's
got to be at the heart of what we do if
we don't solve a serious business
problem
uh then there's not going to be any
serious revenue for us in helping
clients
and i had a career in selling kept
getting promoted
ended up running the asia pacific region
for north american multinationals uh
before i
left the corporate world about eight
years ago and i've gone out on my own on
the back of
a number of best-selling books and i do
consulting for organizations such as
salesforce
and other organizations around the world
um helping them be more successful and
how they sell
fantastic man awesome so let's um let's
jump straight into it
and i'm sure there's a lot of sales
professionals listening perhaps
marketers and
business owners alike that are keen to
learn from yourself
to get some of the tips and like you
just mentioned tony even if you don't
think you're in sales
if you run a business then you are
really you've got to be selling you've
got to go got the cash
you've got to have the cash coming in
you've got to have the revenue to keep
things afloat and to keep things
profitable
so um perhaps we could we could start
from from the bottom really and talk
about some fundamentals
in terms of what it takes to actually
succeed in sales
perhaps talk about some of the mindset
and that's that's part of it and then
maybe move on to things like processes
in terms of having a sales process how
we can reach out to new clients and
different strategies
yes uh well to me it all begins with
product market fit
you know so whether you're an
entrepreneur uh a business person a
marketer
or a sales person uh the big thing we
need to recognize
is that all of the world is not
a prospect or a happy hunting ground for
us
we need we need to really think about
product market fit
uh and the reason it's so important is
because uh time
is really the limited resource that
we're dealing with there is no shortage
of opportunity in the marketplace
but there is a limited number of hours
that we can apply
you know precious time and expensive
resources to opportunity pursuits
so the very first thing everybody should
do whether a new salesperson into a role
or
thinking about starting your own
business as an entrepreneur or
how do i market something or scale my
business think about product market fit
so what problem
do we really solve that has a strong
business case in behind it for making
the investment you know what's the
commercial value of working with us
and if what we provide is really just a
nice to have
we're going to struggle you know so you
know rather than being a vitamin tablet
we need to be
if you want to think of it in those
terms um a headache tablet you know is
important so so think about product
market fit
be brutally honest with yourself about
those realities
and then as you do that you need to
build out ideal
customer profiles so you may to a number
of different verticals but what i call
an icp
is critical got it okay so
firstly work out the problem you solve
and then work out your ideal customer
so is there any tips you can share with
us tony on making sure that your the
problem you solve is actually something
that's worth solving
so should we before we kind of jump into
starting a business model
or something like that should we be
actually testing it out
should we actually be kind of doing
trials with potential customers and
making sure they're actually happy with
what we do and it's actually
something that's worth selling something
that's going to generate a profit or is
there
any other recommendations that you'd
suggest for that sort of things
the really interesting thing about this
is people will have just heard what i
said
and in their own minds they'll go yeah i
understand that you know we've got good
market fit let's move on but i've got to
tell you
most people live in a deluded fool's
paradise
when i say to people show me your icp
have you documented it and they go yeah
go show it to me and they either don't
have it
or it's rubbish but otp is really
important because you think about
firmographics technographics and
psychographics you know you go beyond
just
geographic locations size of
organization
industry vertical but you really start
to think about you know
what what are the attributes of an
organization that constitutes
an ideal fit and a higher propensity or
probability for them to buy
so people think they know this they
think it's in their head
you ask them to write it up on a
whiteboard to get it in the document
they really struggle
so actually do it is really my advice
people think they know this
and then once you've done your icp
you've documented it
and the sales iq platform that i'm part
of now we've got
we've got good templates for this but
once you've done that
you then move into thinking about your
ideal customer profiles
because within those ideal customers
you then need to identify the people
that you need to engage with for either
decision making
or for influence and consensus because
the world we live in today
is that our leaders want want buy-in and
consensus from people
in their team before they'll make a
decision even from a change management
point of view you know that's a smart
thing to do
but if we don't understand the different
buyer personas you know maybe we sell to
the cfo
maybe it's the head of ops maybe it's it
maybe it's hr or finance
they all care about different things in
the organization and our product
will have different outcomes for them
based on their role so it's really
important we understand the people we're
selling to how they gold in their role
what what really matters
um what what their typical um strategies
are to be successful because then we can
talk their language
got it tony so if i give you a quick
example so here at web choice we're a
digital marketing company we typically
sell
to kind of small to medium-sized
businesses with the odd larger company
often we're dealing with kind of
marketing directors sometimes it is the
business owner if they're a small
company and there's only a few employees
and then for kind of higher level kind
of more enterprise operations it might
be that we start doing the marketing
manager
they'll bring in the marketing director
then over time they might bring
in this chief technical officer then
chief revenue officer and so
so on as you know when it when you're
dealing with kind of larger sales cycles
for people who have just started out
should they
go to the top top first tony so should
they go straight to the
top level dms of the ceo and kind of see
see how
their pitch gets gets received or should
they
be a bit more tactical about it and
perhaps reach out to kind of mid-level
decision makers be it marketing managers
or sales managers or things like that or
is there a process to
doing that the real trap for anybody
selling you know whether you're the
business owner
trying to make a sale or you're a
salesperson
the real trap is that the way we're
wired as humans
is we we fear botching the conversation
uh we fear rejection uh we get nervous
we get sweaty palms
whenever we have to do any form of
outreach
we tend to want to treat the phone like
it's covered in spiders
um and just instead you know send emails
and and
linkedin connection requests or messages
to people because you think well at
least i can endlessly polish my message
and i'm not going to get rejected
all of that's a mistake we need to get
back on the phone
uh and the other thing is we tend to
call into
the level where we feel most comfortable
you know that we could carry the
conversation
okay the reality is that's a mistake we
need to take a courage pill
and call into the highest practical
level
and again if we've nailed our icp and we
understand buyer personas for example
i'm calling into the ceo of
manufacturing or i'm calling into the
ceo
of retail you know because they care
about different things
um we will then be equipped to have the
conversation and if we can evidence the
positive results we've provided uh
to others like them uh then we'll be
more confident so the thing is
going as high as you can but the other
piece uh as strange as this may sound is
go at
everybody at the same time before
someone tries to block you
because the problem is if you go in at a
lower level
uh often people start to say well look
just send me the information
i'll send it up the line don't talk to
anybody else
and whether people are uh inept
incompetent
uh lying uh whether they overrate you
know their own level of influence in
their organization
who knows but if you allow someone in
the customers organization
uh to do your selling for you in my view
my view you're indeed trouble so you
need to co-create
a vision for a brighter future with the
clients
and then co-create the business case
that underpin
that underpins the investment to work
with you because in essence the mindset
you need
is i'm not going to ask you to to come
up with money to work with us
i'm going to work with you to show you
how this self funds
working with us will fund itself let's
co-create the business case
and take that to the ceo or the board or
the cfo whoever that happens to be so
go at everybody at the same time talk
the language of all of those individuals
by knowing your buyer persona so
tailor the messaging for each set a
vision for a for a better state of
affairs in their business and then
co-create the business case
help the leader gather consensus and
then go back to the leader
got it and are these very time consuming
activities tony so
let's say we've worked out our idle
customer profile our persona
who we want to actually target we've
worked out the problem we solve
and we've had a look at our messaging
how much time realistically
should we as business owners or sales
professionals be spending
once we've got this information or our
company's given us this information
to actually then be let's say building
lists or building people that fool
within these personas to go and target
should it just be a few minutes each day
or should it be something that takes
perhaps longer
yeah so i'll just talk in the in the
first instance
about the time investment building all
of those things
you know icp buy personas and also
narrative or messaging we need to nail
our messaging
sure it amazes me how many people botch
the conversation
because the message is all about them
them and their product
it's not all about the customer i think
we all get about 10 messages on linkedin
a day
oh we do we do
i've got i think 340 000 people that
that are connected to me follow me
connected to me and linkedin and i just
get bombarded
i get people sending me spam you know
inside linkedin
uh offering to generate leads for my
oh there plumbing business i don't i
don't own a plumbing business
i've had people offer offer to you know
get um uh patience for me as a dentist
you know i'm not a dentist they're
obviously paying some marketing agency
uh uh a lot and just wasting their money
so so the thing is as an entrepreneur or
business person
don't start hiring sales and marketing
people or throwing money at sales and
marketing if you have not first earned
the right
by understanding product market fit icp
buy personas and the messaging
right you're now in a position to
execute now once you've done that
for someone who's a full-time seller
every day they need to have both ores in
the water
one or is creating opportunity pipeline
and the other ore is progressing and
closing deals
so again it it depends on each business
but for a seller if you're not spending
at least a third of your time each day
on actual prospecting not dreaming about
prospecting
not thinking about prospecting not
wishing that you'd done some more
prospecting
not endlessly you know narcissistically
gazing
you know yourself in linkedin or going
down the rabbit hole of research
you know yes we need to research but we
need to actually do
so there's a lot of talking about
prospecting
and driving outbound and organizations
but there's very little doing is what i
find
what the research says is the average
seller only spends about a third of
their time actually selling
i think that's bang on i think that's
going on i think we're all guilty i know
i am as well
of uh having the old linkedin tab you
see a notification pop
and then that just brings you down the
rabbit hole you're scrolling for about
half an hour and i've completely
forgotten
that's what i was doing so yeah
definitely guilty of that tony so the
third of the day prospect you know
that's interesting
um but it kind of makes sense especially
from a sales perspective i suppose as
business owners there's a lot of tasks
you've got to juggle but if you purely
sales and that makes sense to me
okay so we've nailed down um all that
kind of things we've done the background
work
we've started prospecting um
what are the best ways to do it tony
what are some of the channels that you
recommend
that we actually reach out to our idle
customers on
and um start kind of putting out our
message start booking demos or start
booking consultations or meetings or
whatever the end goal is
where we want to sit down either via
zoom skype or even face to face with our
ideal customers
yeah so everything i've been talking
about is really in the context of
business to business selling not
not be not b2c so this is business
um when it comes to the best way to
drive out rich and i know this is a
shameless you know
self self promotion but um my book combo
prospecting explains all of this you can
get it on audible
it's it's actually narrated by a great
guy out of the uk
okay so so the whole principle of combo
prospecting
is we need to patent interrupt
the way the potential clients people who
don't know us yet
we need to patent interrupt the way that
they just ignore all strangers and
anybody trying to
sell or market to them and the way your
patent interrupt
is you use combinations of channels
concurrently so you phone them
and when you phone them that their phone
will ring and they'll they'll have a
look at their smartphone and go this
person
is not in my address book they're not in
my contacts don't know who it is i'm not
going to take it
that's normal so they'll just they'll
dump the call and they'll go back to
looking at their
email messages or their email especially
if you call on the shoulders of the day
which is the best time to be driving
outreach right before and after people
get buried in meetings now knowing
covert
there's not as much commuting but the
world will return to normal
you know at some stage and the shoulders
of the day is the highest open rates
as a marketer you know you'd obviously
know this sam for email
but it's the highest time you get
engagement
so you phone it goes to voicemail you
leave a voicemail
hey sam it's tony from sales iq are
looking to get 15 minutes in your
calendar
i'll i'll shoot you an email that's it i
don't i don't give my value narrative my
my whole
whole value prop elevator pitch i'll
just do that
okay and then i email you i email you
and that all happens within 90
seconds so what happens is your your
pocket device
rings beeps and buzzes all within 90
seconds and it's me
and what that does is it drives up the
open rates on the emails
enormously and that's what what i call a
triple
phone voicemail is a basic triple and
you're not
doing effective outreach unless you
triple somebody
because otherwise you're not patent
interrupting if you just if you just do
mass mail merged email and think and
then i'll then i'll phone them all
you know in the next two days there's
too much of a gap
between the touches and you're not
patent interrupting each one of those
things individually just gets ignored
and
if you want to up your game and make it
a quad you know you would text
them if you want to make it a pen you
text them and what's up them
you'd email them you'd send them you'd
send them a fax
message yeah you'd you'd deploy a
carrier pigeon you know like
you know what what you you would have a
hand delivered letter
to turn up at their office right so the
whole idea
is you don't know which which are the
preferred channels of communication
of a potential client whom you don't yet
know so just try every channel
until they self-identify you know what
their preferred communication is and
so long as your message is relentlessly
about them and not you
and their opportunity to improve results
in their role
and you can evidence what you're
claiming and really back it up with some
insights about what others who are not
direct competitors because that's a
betrayal of trade secrets
yeah something you can evidence and tell
some interesting true stories
that really help set that vision there's
a lot of value for that person in that
conversation whether they bought
anything from you or not
and the way you need to feel is i
believe in the value
that i that i provide people and
you need to give me a valid no or give
me
engagement right i'm not going away
right so respond to me awesome awesome i
talked to some of this stuff about your
co-founder luigi a few weeks back when
he was on the show
and i love i love that response i'm not
going away unless you you give me a no
or or it needs to be a valid no
right but but the truth is time is the
precious resource right so
you know if you for example sold
salesforce software
and you called the prospect and they
said hey we just signed you know four
months ago
a five-year contract with microsoft to
implement microsoft dynamics
that's a real no i mean like what you do
is you update your own crm to say we
need to be talking to this company
in about three and a half four years you
know well before their current contract
expires
right but they're not in a position to
buy so real no is wonderful it liberates
your time you know you stop getting
frustrated and wasting your time and you
stop annoying them
definitely and we talked about that a
lot and that's something i was guilty of
in my early days kind of trying to avoid
the no
when really it's it's one of the best
things you can hear because it means you
don't have to waste your time with them
anymore
you can say look maybe reach out to them
in 6 months 12 months whenever their
contract's up for renewal
move on to the next prospect or do do
the other job you had pinned down for
your day
so it's yeah it's a great point and i
love some of the the points you've just
raised there tony
in terms of combo prospecting in terms
of the 90 seconds and doing the phone
doing the voicemail doing the email so
they're gonna get your message
um and i guess that means if you reach
out again then they've kind of got an
idea who you are
because they're like no one ever does
this so i actually remember this
person's name i remember that company
and it's going to send send alarm bells
in their head when you reach out to them
again
if um if they if there is no response
after the first
kind of 90 second combination with the
phone email voicemail is there a next
step tony
yes so the next thing to really think
about
is that most sellers and business people
make the mistake
of thinking that if someone doesn't
reply
then they're rejecting me they mustn't
they mustn't to be interested
and the truth is often the reason people
don't get back to us
is just because they're busy if i shared
my screen with you now
as insane as this sounds you'd see that
i have more than 19 and a half
thousand unread emails in my inbox
oh wow if we had a look in linkedin it's
chaos
and when i don't get back to people
and by the way i actively skim
to delete and ignore anything that's
from someone i don't know
or i think they're marketing or selling
to me and i get a lot of it
right so i do what our partic you know
our potential buyers do
but often people that i want to get back
to i just miss it or i look at the email
i think oh
when i get off this next call i'll do
that
but the problem is i often forget
because i'm just getting drowned
absolutely drowned in a torrent of
outreach from people to me
so if i don't respond it's not because
i'm not interested it's often because i
just forgot or i'm busy and i'll get
back and apologize
but many people would misinterpret me
not getting back to them and think oh he
must not want to help or he mustn't be
interested
so so the next thing we do is um
depending on the seniority so the more
junior they are
the higher the frequency or the you know
the tighter compressed that the cadences
of outreach
sequence the more senior the less
frequent
but if if they're middle level it'd be
three days later three business days
later
you'd go again so what you do is you
would phone to go to voicemail
and you say hey hey sam uh
are still looking to get 15 minutes with
you i'll send you a calendar invites
right and then then you'd simply hit
reply all
on your email and just put and in the
header
you just add thoughts question mark and
then you'd send a calendar invite
and then you would send a text message
how's thursday 2
15. sam or tony sorry
and you would just go ahead and send it
now i know this sounds very forward
but senior people have got this habit of
just accepting calendar invites
because the only people that send them
to them are people who belong in their
calendar
so you know and it's not like you're
doing that as a first touch
you know where it's a bit inappropriate
right this is now the second round of
communication you've signaled that
you're going to send a calendar invite
and i would just do that and then you
know four or five days
later if they don't respond to any of
that uh then you hit reply again you
know your phone
you hit reply again to that email thread
uh you send another calendar invite you
just you just keep
upping your game you you want to send
the message to them
holy hell you know like my phone's going
to melt down with this person like
you know i need to get back to him or
her right they're clearly not going to
give up
right and if your message is all about
you and what you sell
you're in trouble because you're being
you're upping your persistence
and they don't think it's relevant to
them but if you miss about them and
improving results in their role and have
some genuine insights there's value in
the conversation
even if they never buy that's the thing
we've got to figure out as sales people
how do we do that piece
yeah then upping our game is all okay so
to that point to dive in a bit deeper
tony like you say
myself and i'm sure you with hundreds of
thousand connections on linkedin you
must get hounded with people
um linkedin spam all these messages just
constantly talking about themselves
their product and it does our heading
and it's just no value at all so this
could be really valuable so how can we
actually tailor our message
perhaps you could give us a rough
template be it an email
be a cold call or be a rough text
message
to actually tailor your messaging to be
about your prospects so is there a is
there a rough
kind of guideline that we can follow to
make it
so our prospects actually care what
we're talking about rather than just ask
another sales person talking about the
product delete
okay so so let me talk about these
frameworks so so
when you run outreach when you call
somebody there's there's six elements
that are grouped into into three main
pieces
so the first thing is uh you need to
introduce yourself
and provide context for the conversation
so you introduce yourself
super briefly you know hey sam it's tony
from sales iq
uh i i noticed and now you need to
provide some personalization and there's
three types of personalization
okay the best type of personalization is
a common relationship that recommended
that i call
right so an active trusted relationship
referral that's the most powerful
the the next best thing is to reference
a trigger event
that is highly relevant to that person
don't make it covered
right that's worn out tied like a
relevant irrelevant trigger event
hey mark i notice you just launched the
new jabbadoo product
you know that you're pushing north
america with
um the reason for the call right so so
introduce yourself
and warm the call with some
personalization that's the first phase
now we're going to move into steps three
and four which is the
the second main piece so hey the reason
for the call
is i've got some ideas on how i think
you could and in a way that
have you got just 15 minutes now or when
can we find 20 minutes later in the week
now the the the two pieces that you
insert into
that is in essence a double-edged
benefit statement
or a double-edged value narrative right
so if someone wanted to get to me
they'd call me up uh hey hey tony um uh
sam from the business growth show
actually suggested i give you a call
and i i noticed i actually read that
article where you nearly
dropped dead with a 99 heart blockage
not that long ago
hey the reason for the call is i've got
some ideas on how you could actually
monetize your combo prospecting book and
ideas
and in a way where you get time back
right so you're not putting all that
time and traveling to actually make the
money
have you got just 15 minutes now or when
can we find 20 minutes later in the week
right so so that's an example of doing
this because the thing is well
i want to monetize combo prospecting i'd
love to do it in a way where i get away
from all of the time
and travel to make the money and the
person's
shown me they've done some research by
referencing the article i published
about me nearly dropping dead about 18
months ago
so and and then and then i would
typically say well
uh yes potentially how would i do that
or can you tell me a bit more right and
then you're ready to go to the next
level of information this is step four
right so step three is i've got some
ideas on how you could and in a way that
have you got 15 minutes then the next
piece is they'll naturally ask well can
you tell me more
sure you know it's around you being able
to get your concepts online and make
money while you're asleep
do you mind if i ask right and now we
move into the end
do you mind if i ask and then you have
questions ready to go
do you mind if i ask you know what are
you doing
right now to monetize your ip without
having to put in all of the time and
travel
you know i know it's a bit forward tony
but look how much of your revenue mix is
coming from
from from passive channels you know like
book sales or monetizing your ip online
you know i know you've got a couple of
books out but how much your overall
revenue is
you know is from that right so so then
you ask some questions so that's the
basic framework right so
and and what you need is a core
hypothesis of value based on a buyer
persona
so if someone sold an e-learning
platform and they thought my icp
is all the people in the world that are
those jacked up
want to be self-proclaimed gurus you
know that speak at conferences and
publish books and run seminars they've
all got ip
they all really own a job so they don't
turn up and speak or teach or train they
don't make any money
i'm going to help them you know generate
passive online income by getting their
ip online into e-learning courses
so that's your model you go and find the
hundreds of us around the world in
linkedin
you've got your core narrative and all
you need is a little bit of
personalization at the front and you're
away it's really quick and efficient
love it love it so we've just just to
briefly recap on that tony
um so essentially does it and before we
go into it does it matter the channel
or is this this applicable channel wide
really whether it's an email whether
it's a linkedin
phone phone phone phone so so because
so many sellers have stopped calling you
know they've they've they've drunk
the social selling schlock you know the
lie
that no one's done with disney's not
tuning in yeah well um
me and dan have had some big debates
right now dan
dan's masterful at self-promotion and
and creating controversy for following i
really like dan right it's all awesome
but if you but if you got dan in an
english pub
you know after a few beers and stuck
your finger in his chest or if i did
like you'd end up having quite quite a
real conversation salespeople that
abandon the phone are committing
career suicide we need to get back on
the phone we need to use all of the
channels
right the phone was the original social
selling tool people's
um smart devices are phones right so
it's the phone
it's text it's whatsapp it's linkedin
it's twitter direct messages
like it's all of the channels right it's
all of the channels
love it love it okay so quick quickly
recap you've got that intro
so just perhaps give your name so hi
it's sam over at webchoice tony loved
your article or maybe loved your recent
video
um where you talked about how how he
nearly died and how he worked that into
combo prospecting and there's some
really interesting points and it helped
me personally
to my sales game to the next level and
the reason i'm calling
is because i think we could actually
help you monetize combat prospecting as
you talked about in this article i've
got an unusual strategy that you might
be interested in have you got 15 minutes
in your calendar next next tuesday at 2
30 or maybe next wednesday at 4 30 what
do you think um
now i noticed so they might say yes or
no at this stage you'll notice you
started raising further questions
or or the salesperson started raising
further questions so are we trying to
turn that into discovery or we're trying
to keep our discovery cool for the next
15 minutes i think well the really
interesting thing was is
pre-covered you know what we wanted to
do was to go get on site you know we
wanted to go and have a meeting with
people now it depends on what you sell
but
if what you sell is a big ticket item
you know you want to get in front of
them you want to create emotional
connection
do discovery meet other people we try
and do all of that the reality now is
we're not going to get on site
so if you get them on the phone let's
have the initial conversation now let's
have that
that discovery and qualification call
now um
and sam i really thought that you nailed
that narrative so like you're the
world's best student that was fantastic
you know my my only coaching in the way
that you just did that
is is don't say i've got some ideas on
how we can do this for you
always make them the hero have got some
ideas on how i think you could
on how you could drive more revenue you
know without having to turn up so
resist the temptation to talk about
ourselves i wouldn't give them the
alternative choice close in time because
it just paints us as a seller
you know it's okay these days to let the
person have a bit of control so
just say hey have you got just 15
minutes now or you know
when could we find 20 minutes later in
the week the reason i use that phrasing
is at a subliminal level you're sending
the message it's
easier for you to deal with me now then
then put it off for later in the week
you know it's less time if we just have
this quick conversation now
and then um and if they go sure you know
you say great well look it's really
around a strategy of you being able to
so talk about the underpinning strategy
to get the result without talking about
your product and say oh it's about our
market leading award-winning
world's best practice e-learning
platform you don't say that hey it's a
around random strategy of you getting
your content online
so you can monetize it while you're
asleep do you mind if i ask
right and then have some questions to go
and again most sellers go
yeah look i understand all of that you
know and then you hear them ask the
question ah
so tony is generating you know other
other lines of
income important to you what a stupid
manipulative closed question right so
people people don't know their questions
right so
you need to get the other person talking
about something that leads to the value
we provide talk about something that
helps them come to their own conclusion
that they need to look at this
because people are best motivated for
reasons they discover
they're not motivated by things we tell
them they don't remember things we tell
them
but they'll remember and be motivated by
an epiphany that they had in the
conversation
so if someone asked me hey sir tony how
much of your current revenue is
is 100 passive well you don't actually
have to do anything for it
you know what's what's your plan to get
more of your revenue mix
to where you don't have to turn up and
that gets me thinking
do you know what i need a plan to get
more of my revenue coming in that's
passive
right so so you need to strut they're
not it's not about being manipulative
it's have questions that lead to the
value that we can provide
yeah and i think it also brings us back
to personalization as well from what you
said tony
as like you say two far too many
messages are just generic copy and paste
when it only takes a couple minutes to
look at someone's linkedin profile or
check out their website or look at their
blog
get some content that's probably quite
important something that they've
recently talked about that's gonna
ring alarm bells in their head and
they're gonna know you've actually taken
the effort to research them
and then it's gonna strive for a better
conversation so yeah
that will make sense great advice sam to
everyone listening to this that is great
advice from sam that's excellent
cool okay awesome so we've covered it
nearly all now we've talked about
working out your idle customer
how to set up a framework for how to
actually reach out to them we've talked
about how to prospect we talked about
how to actually get the meetings booked
in
um perhaps we should talk about the
actual meeting itself or the demo itself
before we wrap things up so is there any
tips you've got once we've actually got
this 15 minute this 20 minute demo or
the presentation or whatever format our
business likes to showcase our wares
are there any tips for for making best
use of our time the prospects time
and kind of bringing the business in or
taking it to the next step depending on
our sales cycle
yeah so we we need clarity about how we
are seeking to create
progression not the worst thing in the
world is to have a meeting that we feel
was great
but it did not result in the customer
committing to do something at the end of
it
so just remember it's never a good
meeting unless the customer is doing
something for us at the end
so a lot of sellers use different
frameworks for qualification
the most well-known one in the world is
banned you know does the person have
budget authority
is there a genuine need and do they have
a timeline to do something
uh there's medic like there's all of
these frameworks
but in my view buyers don't like being
qualified
they don't like the spanish inquisition
of questions
so what we want to do is we want to get
ourselves on their side of the table
metaphorically if it's a digital meeting
to explore the business case
for change you know is there enough
commercial value here to warrant change
and if that's your ethos i'm just trying
to understand whether it would make
sense for you to even be looking at this
so when a lead comes to us we should
always be asking hey what's happened
inside your organization
that's caused you to want to look at
this don't say you know to look at our
award-winning solution
just take what's happened as far as you
want to look at this if the business was
to make any changes in this area
regardless of who you went with us or
somebody else
what improved results would the business
expect and also for you and your role
and where do you see the risks so those
type of conversations the degree to
which the person
engages with you in that conversation
and shares information
and also access to other people in their
team
that's the degree to which it's a
well-qualified opportunity
and you have a higher probability of
winning so we need two we need a two-way
dance with people
the other thing i'll finish on sam if i
can is um
a lot of the selling today is not on
site it's remote
and it absolutely amazes me how many
sellers and business people just
do not have basic tq you know
we know that we need iq and eq in
business
but we need technical quotient today we
need to know how to use the technology
and tools and the most basic things
where they'll they'll be running an
online meeting on zoom
or a platform like that and the laptops
down
way below their head height you know and
the person on the other side is looking
up their nostrils and at their double
chin and at the fan and the ceiling
they've got a bright window behind them
you know with bright light so their face
is almost unrecognizable because of
contrast problems
they've got a crappy microphone in their
horrible pc where it's all distorted and
horrible
so things like get your laptop up to eye
height
stand up like i'm doing right now to
lift my energy
get your lighting sorted out get a
professional microphone
learn how to use tools like zoom know
how to go
in into gallery view if you're
presenting come in and out of your
slides ask people to turn their camera
on
we need to find a way to create
engagements uh to use human empathy
as a way building connection with a
client rather than have a monologue
so my last piece of advice is invest in
becoming a masterful
digital seller or or business person
because
uh one thing that's going on right now
is that
even post covert when things come back
to a semblance of normal
every business in the world has thought
you know what
i don't need to have as many salespeople
visiting our office you know i can deal
with all of this with far less
time and hassle they're all going to
push a lot more online engagement and we
won't get to get on site with people
until we're far
deeper into the sales process or funnel
so learn how to do digital
digital selling really well i'm
co-authoring my new book which is called
our tech powered sales and we talk a lot
about this
uh we're in the middle right now of the
fourth industrial revolution
and the world is changing enormously
awesome tony there's some great tips
because there's nothing worse than
having a zoom call with with someone and
you can barely see them it's dark as
anything
or that their microphone is terrible
like you say it's coming from a laptop
and it's just an absolute shambles you
can not really understand what's going
on it's just
yeah just simple stuff and like you said
it's not very expensive you can get
a microphone you can get a decent webcam
you can get some lights fairly cost
effectively
to wrap things up tony we like to always
ask um
i know you guys are keen on outbound a
lot of people approaches outbound
for businesses that are utilizing
digital marketing are there any digital
marketing channels you specifically
recommend
that have worked for your business over
at sales iq that have helped you guys
get more inbound that you recommend to
any business owners tuning in
um as a digital channel of choice or
choices
yes so so the key is go and be
where your customers are you know that's
the first thing so
maybe your customers in facebook are in
facebook or they're in linkedin
uh email is still highly valid the thing
we
the thing we know today with marketing
so here's my tips on outbound marketing
if you're driving outbound
to create inbound if that's what your
strategy is and that's a valid strategy
the key to effective outbound first is
all of the things we've talked about
know your icp
buyer personas be on point a message
that's about them
but once you've got that nailed the key
things are this brevity
you need to be brief the emails you send
people go you've got to be kidding me
that you'd like you for real but i
promise you this works
what we need to do emails need to be
three sentences
not three paragraphs just three
sentences
the header needs to be one or two words
you know
it needs to get rid of all of the cheesy
marketing spamulum
you know optimizing your outcomes in
2020 you know like the moment you put
covered in the heading of anything
you're dead right
right it's just all instant delete and
then the other thing i just say is we
all know
that personalization is the holy grail
of marketing we all know
that it's the personal the
personalization of all the outbound is
the holy grail
everyone's having a go and almost nobody
is doing it well
the the amount of automated rubbish you
know where
i get emails all the time you know hey
tony i noticed that we're both based in
sydney
would it make sense to catch up for a
coffee i'm thinking man there's five mid
there's five and a half six million
people live in sydney
because we live in the same city is not
the reason for a coffee but
that's that's not relevant right um so
companies are trying to pull an
attribute to put into personalization
but it often misses the mark
so as a seller the human level as sam
talked about that
quick pragmatic research for you to add
the human element inject the human
element of personalization
uh is is really key so yes drive
outbound but you've got to avoid the
spam filters turn all the html off don't
add images until you're into your
probably third email you know exchange
with somebody
all the initial stuff's got to be short
it's got to be simple you've got to find
a way to punch through
tony love it thoroughly enjoyed our talk
everyone you've been tuning in to sam's
business growth show or we sit down with
business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story how
marketing's helped along the way and
their exclusive tips and insights to
help you scarce at your sales and score
your business tony if you could thank
just one person give a dad or a life
having a positive influence on yourself
and your career who would that be and
why
it would be my dad you know who's passed
away but i remember my dad
late one night said to me he said son
all you need to make it in life is uh
one person who'll believe in you
and that and that's very true excellent
man
good stuff uh tony tell us a bit more
about your books the best way people can
learn from you connect with you
and get in touch if they wish to yeah so
obviously
connect with me in linkedin so just
search tony hughes
in linkedin my latest book is called
combo prospecting you'll find it in you
know all of the normal ways of buying uh
audio books ebooks and paperback books
and please keep an eye out for tech
powered sales that's being published mid
next year
and obviously you can find my concepts
if you want to get trained on all of
these things
on the sales iq platform excellent man
and if you've enjoyed
the show you can subscribe to sam's
business growth show we have three fresh
episodes with business leaders each and
every week and there's tons of other
episodes you should check out on spotify
apple youtube wherever you get your
podcasts tony thanks so much for coming
on man i really appreciate it
thanks sam thank you for having me and
thanks everyone for tuning in
cheers are you tired of constantly
hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google perhaps you're already spending
lots of money on advertising
but your website is failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors
into a consistent flow of new customers
if you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings idle
clients
straight to you connect with sam dunning
on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts